viii naasson.

the monastic writers, like literary men os the
present day, uo doubt osten occupied their
leisure in a desultory kind of writing osten
abounding‘ in repetitions and treating of the
same thing over and over again3 and not un-
srequently disjointed and inooberent with it-
self‚ as writers still do, when they amuse
themselves in their study without any imme-
diate thoughts os publishing what they write,
and without much attempt to reduce what
they put on paper into a uniform and harmo-
nious composition.

Of the subject-matter contained in this
chronicle it is hardly necessary to say much.
The period os our history which it embraces
takes in the great battles of Bannockburn,
Cressy, and PoitierS, and the accounts which
are here contained os those celebrated engage-
ments are of the greatest possible interest, as
they evidently are of the greatest authenticity‚
and are undoubtedly derived from the oral
testimony os an eye-witness.

There is, however, a literary difficulty con· '
oerning this chronicle, which the editor is un-
ableto solve. Camden, in his Alyziae, Hiber-
nico, 850. pp. 593-693, published a short ι

chronicle under the name os Thomas de la

 

